JCL statements consist of
one or more 80 byte records.
However, be careful
when you get close to
the end of that line
there because columns
73 through 80 are ignored by
z/OS and are usually used
for sequence numbers.
If you've got a command
with a whole lot of
parameters that you need to
continue on to the second line,
here's what you do.
Note, this is only how you
continue for a parameter.
If you've got a comment or
a parameter field
enclosed in parentheses,
those require something
slightly different.
But if you've got
a list of parameters,
interrupt the field after
a complete parameter entry,
making sure to end
it with a comma.
That comma needs to come
at or before columns 71.
In the next line which you are
going to be continuing into,
start with two forward slashes
and then a blank space.
If column three starts
with anything other
than a blank space
or an asterisk,
splat, it will assume
it's a new line and
probably won't run right.
You can then pick up
your continued commands
starting anywhere from
columns 4 through 16.
You should also know that
there's different types of
statements: JOB, EXEC, and DD.
You can see all
three types here and
they all have parameters that
are expected to follow them.
I also want to talk to you
about those dispositions you
see here because you'll
definitely be running into those.
But before we can get into that,
we have to cover cataloging.
Now, cataloging a dataset
just means that we add
the exact location
of that dataset so we can find it
later referencing it
only by its name.
Datasets can exist without
being in a catalog,
you just have to know exactly
where they are to use them.
Having a dataset in your catalog
is like having a phone number
in your address book.
So if you want to reference
a dataset by its name later on,
make sure it's in
the catalog. That's it.
When you specify the disposition
in a DD statement,
you're specifying what to do
with the datasets in JCL.
You do this across three fields
separated by a comma.
Don't worry, there's
an example after this.
You start with DISP equals,
that sets it all up.
In the first field,
we're specifying whether
it should be NEW,
either it doesn't exist
yet so we should make it.
OLD, meaning it
should already exist.
SHR, the data can be
used by other jobs.
MOD, if the dataset
doesn't already exist,
then create it.
If it already does
exist, then use that.
In the next statement,
we specify what action
the system needs to
perform on the dataset
when the JOB step
terminates normally.
We can either DELETE it,
get rid of it. KEEP it.
If you're referencing a dataset,
you expect it to be
there when it started,
you probably want
to keep it around.
PASS, meaning that if
there's a step after
this step that needs
the dataset, let them use it.
CATLG, add it to the catalog,
make it permanent or UNCATLG,
remove it from the catalog.
Then lastly in the third column.
What to do if a JOB step
terminates abnormally if
something bad happens.
Same as the previous column,
but there's no option
for PASS because,
if the job is stopping,
there are no future steps
to pass it onto.
So here's an example
of a DD statement with
a disposition of
NEW, CATLOG, DELETE.
We're going to
create a new dataset
and if the JOB runs successfully,
add it to the catalog.
Otherwise, delete it.
I know this was a lot of
information and believe me,
I wish that were everything.
For the full details
on JES and JCL,
refer to the user guide and
reference linked in this lesson.